Continue expanding / updating diagnostics section (#253)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/10.diagnostics.md

### Molecular Tests

Molecular tests are often carried out from nasopharyngeal cavity samples, including throat wash and saliva [@doi:10/ggp4qx].
They have also been shown to work in one study using stool samples [@doi:10.1002/jmv.25742].

> This has been applied to broader community surveillance rather than for patient diagnostics, in studies that tested wastewater. [@doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138764]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This has been applied to broader community surveillance, rather than for patient diagnostics, in studies that tested wastewater [@doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2020.138764].
```

Considering that no other sarbecoviruses are currently known to infect humans, a positive test indicates that the patient is infected with SARS-CoV-2.
However, this test is not able to discriminate the genetics of viruses within the sarbecovirus clade.

#### Pooled PCR Testing Approaches

> Due to limited supplies and the need for more tests, a number of labs have found ways to enable pooled or similar tests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to limited supplies and the need for more tests, a number of labs have found ways to enable pooled or otherwise parallelized tests.
```
I am also not sure of exactly what the right word would be! Does "parallelized" do it? I was also thinking "multiplexed"?

Reviewer 2: Multiplex PCR is something different, isn't it? How about "group testing"? What would be examples of these other pool-like tests?

> The first such result was a group at the Technion, which found they could pool up to 32 samples [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.26.20039438], followed by larger pooling in work utlizing slightly different methods at the University of Minnesota [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.02.022186].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first such result came from a group at the Technion, which found they could pool up to 32 samples [@doi:10.1101/2020.03.26.20039438], which was then followed by larger-scale pooling in work that utilized slightly different methods at the University of Minnesota [@doi:10.1101/2020.04.02.022186].
```
Are these both RT-PCR with minor methodological changes, or is something more fundamental changing? Just in case it's helpful, FYI we have a section about dPCR at #206 that should be merged into the manuscript quite soon! Also, I'm wondering if larger pooling is "larger-scale pooling", or maybe "higher-throughput pooling"?

Importantly, false-positives can occur due to the cross-reactivity with other antibodies according to the clinical condition of the patient [@url:https://www.fda.gov/media/136625/download].
Therefore, this test should be used in combination with RNA detection tests [@url:https://www.fda.gov/media/136625/download].

> Serological tests also require waiting until a patient has had an imune system reaction sufficient to detect, which means that these tests are of limited use for diagnosis in the early stages of an infection.

Reviewer 2: "Due to the long incubation times and delayed immune responses of infected patients, serological tests are insensitive for diagnosis in the early stages of an infection."

> The limitation on timing makes serological tests vfar less useful for enabling test-and-trace strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The limitations due to timing make serological tests far less useful for enabling test-and-trace strategies.
```

### Possible Alternatives to Current Practices for Identifying Active Cases

> Clinical symptoms are similar enough to other types of pneumonia that purely symptomatic diagnosis is unlikely to be sufficient.

Reviewer 2: "so that" would clarify that "that" doesn't refer to the pneumonia but to the sentence.

Reviewer: Per @matfax comment, I actually don't mind the that there, but I would suggest the following change to the first part of the sentence:
```suggestion
Clinical symptoms are sufficiently similar to other types of pneumonia that purely symptomatic diagnosis is unlikely to be sufficient.
```

Reviewer 2: Sufficiently similar to be sufficient? I don't know...
Clinical symptoms are too similar to other types of pneumonia to be sufficient/reliable as a sole/single diagnostics criterion?

> However, related approaches for diagnosis of cases exist, though most of these are only likely to identify serious and symptomatic cases.

Reviewer 2: What kind of "related approaches"?
"even though most of them are only sensitive to symptomatic and severe cases."

> X-ray diagnostics have high sensitivity but low specificity in some studies. [@doi:10.1148/radiol.2020200642]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
X-ray diagnostics have been reported to have high sensitivity but low specificity in some studies [@doi:10.1148/radiol.2020200642].
```

> Others have shown that some doctors seems to be able to better distinguish, though sensitivity in this case was lower [@doi:10.1148/radiol.2020200823].

Reviewer 2: Others have shown that some doctors seem to be able to distinguish better, even though sensitivity, in this case, was lower

Reviewer: Maybe something like "Other studies have shown that specificity varies between radiologists, though the sensitivity reported here was lower"
(Assuming that's consistent with what the study says, I didn't check it!)

However, preliminary machine-learning results have shown far higher sensitivity and specificity from analyzing chest X-rays than was possible with clinical examination [@doi:10.1007/s13246-020-00865-4].

> Even using machine learning, this class of diagnostics are limited to confirming clinically severe cases, however, and will not detect asymptomatic or presymptomatic infections, which is critical for stopping spread.

Reviewer 2: Regarding a- and presymptomatic infections: COVID-19 can manifest in the lung tissue and X-rays even though COVID-19 infected don't notice it. X-rays could benefit in this case. Machine-learning could increase the sensitivity of the X-ray scanning. A theoretical benefit is not disproven. I would write it this way:
"Yet, X-ray machine learning can only detect asymptomatic or presymptomatic infections that show lung manifestations. Therefore, it is unlikely to hinder the spread significantly."

- people with severe symptoms
- people showing mild symptoms that have been in contact with a person who has developed the infection
- people with underlying health conditions

> However, this method of testing administration does not detect a high proportion of infections, and does not allow for test-and-trace methods to be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this method of testing administration does not detect a high proportion of infections and does not allow for test-and-trace methods to be used.
```
Is test-and-trace currently defined anywhere in the text? If you don't mind checking and including an explanation if it isn't defined yet, that would be really helpful!

Author: I will add that elsewhere in the next revision.

> Individuals that are asymptomatic (potentially able to infect others) and individuals that are able to recover at home are therefore often unaware of their status.

Reviewer 2: "that": who
"(potentially able to infect others)": Either explain in a separate sentence or too self-explanatory to mention.

"that are able to recover at home": Is it really the attribute that they are able recover at home that makes them unaware of their status? I think it's more a psychological phenomenon to wait things out until they are too worse to neglect. Who isn't able to recover at home anyways?

Reviewer: Perhaps "who are not advised to seek in-person medical attention" or something? Right now I believe the CDC recommendation is to stay at home and call your doctor rather than going in for an appointment until you get very severe. There is supposed to be drive through testing, but my understanding is that it is still not very accessible (all based on the USA, it's definitely better in some other places!)

Reviewer 2: This topic might be more complex than one sentence can explain. And it's also an interesting and useful topic to elaborate. Unidentified cases drive the spread, after all. It will most likely depend on the country, its policies, and the socio-cultural environment. Here are some aspects I spontaneously figured:
* Insufficient Capacities: What are the testing capacities? How well is the medical system equipped? How well can contact tracing be applied?
* Incomplete and inaccurate case identification: Is everyone allowed to be tested? Several countries only test cases with a traceable infection history. Some countries only test severe symptoms. Different testing methods are used.
* Financial insecurity: Is the test being paid for? Is follow-up health care being paid for? Does the government compensate for the missed wages?
* Improper sensitization: How do the government, local scientists, and the press sensitize the topic? A downplayed risk assessment can desensitize people to not take it serious enough. They play it safe, neglect it, might even spread it because they still think "it's just the flu" or because they start to believe some of the "conspiracy theories".

Reviewer: Sorry I missed this before, @matfax! It is very interesting! I don't know how much public health we have/will have in the text, but these are all really interesting points.
